Now that we learned about this express error handling middleware which we can use, which we added,
what exactly does throw new error in this catch block, in this middleware in the app.js file do for us?
I mentioned that this will become important. Now
like this, it'll unfortunately not do anything.
Let me start up our server real quick again and let me ensure that we do get an error by simply throwing
a new error, a dummy error
here, again to simply simulate that something goes wrong.
I throw it here,
if I throw it in a then block, the next catch block will catch it and handle it,
now let's see what this does.
Now to see the effect, I have to log in to ensure that we do get a user session and we can already see
this crashes here,
it loads infinitely because I have an error here,
my dummy error.
So this is now not doing anything,
the app is still crashing.
So one important takeaway is throwing an error here does not lead to our general error handling middleware
being called and that is important.
This is true because we're inside some async code, we're inside a promise here,
we're inside a then or a catch block. If you throw errors there, you will not reach that
express error handling middleware.
The interesting thing is if you would throw an error outside of async code,
so in a place where the code executes synchronously,
so basically outside of a promise, then catch block or outside of a callback,
so here if I throw my sync dummy like this, if we do that,
so this is now throwing in a normal function,
not nested inside a promise or a callback or anything like that.
If I now reload this, you'll see that it tried to load the 500 page but it still failed.
The reason for this is really simple,
we have our middleware in place here where I retrieve my user and there I throw the error
but this executes for every incoming request.
Now when we redirect here, we do send a new request so we kind of enter an infinite loop here,
we execute this again,
it throws an error,
we go to the error handling middleware, we trigger a new request. A solution here can be to simply
not redirect to 500 but immediately execute our rendering code,
so this code in our get 500 controller action and we could absolutely do that.
We could render our error here instead of redirecting, we could render our page here and if we do that,
you will see that now if I reload,
I just get a problem regarding my csrf token because that can't be generated based on the incoming request
because the request basically has issues here in our middleware before we set up the csrf token.
So the solution for that would be to switch the order to make sure we set this token before we actually
do something with the user which we tried to fetch,
so now this works and now we get an error handling in place.
The interesting thing is not just that we had to switch the order though and that we should avoid infinite
loops
but the interesting thing here also is that here I'm just throwing an error
and we still reach this global error handling middleware.
The reason for that is that in synchronous places, so outside of callbacks and promises, you throw an error
and express will detect this and execute your next error handling middleware. Inside of async code,
so inside of
then, catch or callbacks,
this does not work however.
Inside of that, you have to use next with an error included.
So this is then detected by express again and this is what we used in the other files and inside of async
code snippets, you need to use
next wrapping that error, outside
you can just throw that error.
And so if I now uncomment this, you will see that if I try to reload my page, I get this error no matter what
I do because I still have this dummy error being thrown in my promise, hence the catch block executes, hence
this line executes.
So now I will get rid of that but I will leave this catch block as it is and you have to understand
that for one, you should avoid infinite loops triggered through your error handling middleware as we had it
initially here
and second, that you can throw the error in synchronous code places like this one but inside of promise, then
or catch blocks or inside of callbacks, you have to use
next around the error.